okay testing one two testing one two
yeah you're great
I'm also great audio wise hey good how
you do it's squared image okay it looks
good
yeah yeah how you doing today I'm doing
well
looking forward to our conversation
[Music]
hello everyone welcome back to
adventures through the mind I am your
host as always James W gesso I am going
to start this episode off with a big
thanks to the spirit plant medicine
conference in Vancouver happening
November 2nd to the 4th you've probably
noticed they've caused sponsored a few
episodes over the last couple months and
yeah that's very exciting the guest
today Chris Bates is one of the
presenters at the conference and I will
be one of the attendees so if you want
to come check me out or check out the
conference in general or come check out
Chris at that conference follow the link
contained in the description to this
episode jump over there if you buy a
ticket then I get a little bit of
commission from that which goes towards
my costs to fly out to Vancouver to
attend this so it's and you get to go to
a big concert or a concert Jesus
conference yes
win win okay today's guest is
Christopher M beige beige is professor
emeritus in the Department of Philosophy
and religious studies at Youngstown
State University where he taught for 33
years
he has also adjunct faculty at the
California Institute of integral studies
and a fellow at the Institute of noetic
Sciences an award-winning teacher and
international speaker Chris's work
explores the philosophical implications
of non-ordinary states of consciousness
especially psychedelic states he's
written three books translated into six
languages life cycles a study of
reincarnation in light of contemporary
consciousness research dark night early
dawn a pioneering work into psychedelic
philosophy and collective consciousness
and the living classroom an exploration
of teaching and collective fields of
consciousness he has a new book being
released from inner traditions in 2019
diamonds from heaven a 20-year journey
into the mind of the universe so let me
just give you a little bit more detail
as to Christopher and
he's been up to you at some point about
40 years ago
he decided it would be a good idea for
him to take high doses of LSD regularly
with the intention I guess to map
consciousness as a metaphysical
philosopher and then proceeded to do so
76 I believe 76 times over the course of
20 years 20 years after his last journey
in that specific structure he is about
to release his book diamonds from heaven
and he is on the show today to talk
about basically what drove him to do
this what it was like and what did he
learn and furthermore not just what did
he learn about the nature of
consciousness and the psychedelic
experience but what did he learn about
what can we do as human beings to make
sense of experiences that are as massive
as the ones you were going to hear him
describe in this episode we also had a
great post-credits talk that with his
permission I am going to be releasing as
well exclusively to the patrons at first
but after a few weeks you will be able
to get access to it on YouTube so if you
are not already subscribed to YouTube
please head over there do so hit the
little bell so that you get
notifications because these sort of
extra episodes the post-credits sequence
only get notified to patrons and then
once the public they only get notified
basically out through those who are
subscribed on my youtube channel so head
over there and do that if you're not
already watching this on youtube and if
you want to become a patron that would
be amazing because it is thanks to my
patrons on patreon that I'm able to give
my time into building this podcast and
the larger domain of my work for you the
psychedelic culture big thanks to the
patrons whose names are listed in the
upper corner of this episode on YouTube
and to tempo ik massage and Lola for the
excellent and very generous PayPal
donations okay got a little bit of noise
happening in my environment now so I'm
going to end this quick if you want to
support the show by coming a patron or
by leaving a donation the links to do so
are contained in the description to this
episode on YouTube at James W Jessup
and whatever pod catcher you are
listening to it enjoy this episode with
Christopher eh
on adventures through the mind just
because of a context of my of my work
and my travel I didn't get a chance to
really look into what you do until
yesterday other than you know Stephens
you know what's the word I'm looking for
shining recommendation definitely put
you in the map and then I was I was
really blown away I found I found it to
be yeah that's just really blown away
it's interesting yeah interesting stuff
you had going on there yeah well I've
been sawed up on the side of the
psychedelic community but been there for
a long time doing my own thing
mm-hmm-hmm yeah makes sense cuz you had
to protect your your career for some
time yeah yeah alright so okay why don't
why don't we start it off here just
easing in give me a sense of where
you're coming from when you start this
work you were doing high dose LSD
experiences for twenty years you've
stopped about ten years ago which means
that you started doing this thirty
thirty years ago at that point I believe
LSD was already illegal can you sort of
like draw or paint us a picture of the
context that you were entering in to the
decision to do this and while while
doing that can you also explain the
difference between what you were doing
and what was popular at the time insofar
as psychedelic therapy or psycholytic
therapy yeah well I came out of graduate
school in 1978 I was trained as a
philosopher religion and I came to
Youngstown State University in Northeast
Ohio to begin my teaching career and at
the time I was an atheistic Lee inclined
agnostic but that first year I read Stan
Grof first book realms of the human
unconscious and I am
immediately connected with it I felt I
had found my life's work
this was 1978 the Controlled Substances
Act had been passed in 1970 the early
era of psychedelic research was over and
of course we were had entered that
blackout between 1970 and when
Scientific American had published its
front-page editorial recommending that
we end the ban on psychedelic research
in 2017 2014 but there was this blackout
no one was allowed to do this work
anymore
I was convinced that it could be done
safely and Stan Graz was very work was
very important me in that respect and I
was convinced that the people who would
be making the most important
contributions in philosophy of religion
would soon be being people who were
riding out of an experiential basis so I
made the decision to divide my life in
half and my public life I continued my
work as a academic professor traditional
professor teaching my courses doing all
the things professors do but in my
private life have began a 20-year
journey working with high levels of
psychedelics of LSD seventy three
sessions extending over 20 years between
1979 and 1999 I chose to work with high
doses first because it was complicated
to arrange time for sessions when you
have a dual career marriage and two
professional people and I wanted to make
the most out of every session but then
after the process got started I found
that I thought it would get me to my
goal of enlightenment faster basically
breaking off larger pieces of karma
doing a larger pieces of karma in every
session after that model of personal
enlightenment dissolved along the way I
continued to work with high doses of LSD
because it took me where I wanted to go
and then it took me farther than I ever
dreamed was possible you know just gonna
take a quick pause to clarify something
because high-dose LSD is not very clear
for the listeners how high of a dose
what was the what was the metric
no no metric was 500 to 600 micrograms
which is kind of a maximum high dose
stands worked if Stan differentiates
between psycholytic or low dose therapy
averaging about 200 micrograms up to 300
psychedelic therapy is high dose between
300 and 1500 more typically 300 to 500
but in the early work that he did at
Spring Grove Hospital it was
deliberately limited to a maximum of 3
sessions the idea was to trigger an
experience of transcendence that would
help people come to terms with their
impending death I thought if you could
do this safely three times you could do
it safely more frequently and that's so
I saw myself at the time simply doing an
extended dose of high-dose therapy when
I got to the end of this journey however
and was looking back I realized that
what unfolded on this journey was more
radical and more challenging than what
had emerged in the early psychedelic
therapy work and so I had to coin a new
term a new phrase for it so the way I
would describe my work now that that
psychedelic period is psychedelic
exploration
the method is psychedelic therapy with
totally internalized sessions strong
evocative music working with the sitter
always in a protected isolated
environment classic set and setting the
difference is the high number of
sessions so for me
turned out to be 73 sessions some of the
conclusions that you that you drew are I
just remember having recently listened
to some of your lectures and and and
just being so moved by it and I'm
noticing myself now wanting excitedly to
ask you basically what you learned in
the end but I know that this I'm just
like kind of suppressing that urge a
little bit and to maybe deepen into you
know what what exactly was happening
what and and I want to ask that question
couched and very specific phenomena that
you observed which was multiple layers
of death and and rebirth and like an
increasing expansion into and I'm kind
of I guess using my own my own words
here but like of higher levels of
reality can you sort of couch in this
idea of what do you mean by multiple
death and rebirth can you give us an
outline of I mean what the hell was
happening in there after 70 something
you know progressively through 70
something sessions about 500 mics of LSD
well that is the question and it is it's
it's it's hard to summarize I mean it's
taken me about 300 pages just to tell
the story of what happened it's hard to
jump into it quickly because there were
so many layers but basically my
experience has been that the universe or
the mind of the universe of the mind of
divine is an infinite ocean of potential
and when we drop our individual mind
into that ocean it catalyzes a set of
experiences out of that infinite
potential and as we are changed and and
influenced and healed and purified by
that exchange the seed crystal of our
mind changes and then later when we drop
that same mind now transformed into the
ocean it catalyzes a deeper set of
experiences out of that infinite
potential so my experience was that
there were a series of initiations that
took place over many years a series of
deaths followed by a rebirth into a
deeper level of reality and then a
gradually acclimating to that level of
reality adjusting to its conditions
you're going through a purification
process because as I experienced at
least every deeper level of reality or
every deeper state of consciousness that
gave us access to a deeper level of
reality was a higher level of energy so
to stabilize consciousness at that
deeper level of consciousness so that
your experience of that deeper level of
reality would be coherent and not
fragmented you had to go through a very
intense purification process
but if you continue to work at a
particular level if you can continue to
stay internalized and push my experience
was you would go back to the same level
and you would I would acclimate to that
level I would begin to have more
coherent experiences at that level and
eventually I would come to a point where
the death rebirth process would repeat
itself I would go through some agonizing
complete loss of control and then I
would collapse and be an internal
collapse and then I would be reborn into
a yet deeper level of consciousness
which gave me access to a deeper level
of reality and this went on
systematically periodically for twenty
years so to describe the levels of
consciousness that I entered into it's a
it's a longer story absolutely yeah and
I was thinking at some point I might ask
you a couple like what does this mean
insofar as like why is the chapter
titled this and yeah but maybe because
all of this you know having listened to
the longer story you know all of this is
very descriptive but for someone who's
just entering into this for the first
time it can be kind of abstract so now
maybe you can you can talk about what
this looks like because you know I got
one description from you that seemed to
make a lot of sense to me which was
something like you know in the early
sessions you were working through your
own personal stuff and that eventually
you needed to die to who you were to
become you know you know beyond your
personality into a greater a greater
sense of like the underlying human
consciousness and then even at some
point to die from that underlying human
consciousness into something beyond it
can you give maybe a step by step in the
early stages what that looked like yeah
for about the first two years I worked
at what Stan Grof describes as the
perinatal level of consciousness which
is the interface between your personal
reality your egoic reality in space-time
and early transpersonal consciousness so
I went through many experiences of
reliving my own birth of experiences of
death and dying until eventually after
about two and a half years my personal
reality was just shattered I was just
crushed and extinguished I died as the
person I had known myself to be and then
I was reborn into a level of reality
that transcended radically transcended
Kris Bhatia's reality and I was working
at that point at a deep within the
collective unconscious and then the the
entire process began again and in my
experience there are two phases of every
session there's a cleansing phase which
lasts usually a couple of hours and then
there's an ecstatic phase so if you
enter into the cleansing phase and let
it take you wherever it wants to take
you you reach it reaches a peak you go
through some type of crisis some type of
transition and then the remainder of the
session is spent in ecstatic reality
word receive teachings and experiences
so in the cleansing phase of Phase two I
entered into what I call the ocean of
suffering just domains of pain and
suffering that were vast and kompis
large swathes of human history and
hundreds of thousands of persons it took
about two years to go through all of
that material at the personal side on
the ecstatic side I was experiencing for
about a year I experienced my life as a
completed whole start to finish all the
time moments of my life as a
simultaneous present I just kind of
experienced my life as a complete
totality and then in the second phase I
went through a series of initiations in
which I was taken deep into the mind of
the universe and just given a series of
teachings and given a series of
experiences that basically grounded me
in a larger cosmological vision of
reality after about two years of that
process I went to another death and
rebirth cycle and was spun beyond not
only beyond my individual reality but
also beyond my reality as a human
species altogether beyond the collective
psyche into what I done
is archetypal reality but it wasn't the
archetypes described by either plate or
Carl Jung it was both I mean it had
certain features similar to plato's
description and certain features of
Jung's description but it really had
other features that did not fit in their
description the realities that I
encountered there at the high archetypal
level were not eternal unchanging ideas
in the mind of God as Plato describes it
but vast living cosmic forces giant
beings being so vast my mind literally
could not wrap itself around it I could
only get approximations of the scale of
their dimensions at the slightly beneath
that at the Union level I entered deep
into the collective psyche and then
first a couple of years had all sorts of
experiences of how our species functions
as a single organism was taken deep into
the sort of meta neural networks of the
species mind and also began to have
experiences of reincarnation but not as
an individual not from the perspective
of individual souls but from the
spective of an entire species that was
incarnated every generation a whole
generation of its beings and
experiencing the centralized
intelligence that was kind of
orchestrating or collaborating with the
individual souls to facilitate not just
an individual journey of transformation
but to facilitate a species journey of
transformation and I went through
another round of death and rebirth I'm
skipping over and of course a lot of
things right right and then I was
catapulted into what some people call
causal reality into non dual reality in
where the entire universe began to
function as a single totality and had a
number of experiences of what the
Buddhists call Shunyata emptiness of
self oneness cosmic love experiences of
the primal void the fertile void you
know the
armless that is a source of all
existence after that then I went I was
coming into the last five years of work
in the last five years catapulted me
after again more rounds of purification
and death and rebirth into a cosmic
light that was so intense and so clear
and so pure I called it the diamond
luminosity and that's where the title of
the book comes from diamonds from heaven
buddhism calls this the absolute clear
light it associates it with its concept
of dharmakaya the fundamental reality
that is the source of all existence let
me back up light entered into the
experiences there are many many levels
of light many gradations of light in my
experience there I had experienced light
many times and earlier death rebirth
processes so when I talk about the
diamond light I'm not simply talking
using metaphor to describe that light
I'm trying to describe a particularly
intense exceptionally clear state of
awareness of crystalline light that
becomes so clear eventually becomes
transparent to itself and in those last
five years in the last 26 sessions which
was actually about one third of all of
my work I entered that reality four
times in just four times so about once a
year I would be catapulted into this
reality and then I would go through more
detoxification more purification and
about a year later would enter into this
reality one more time that's the kind of
larger overview right right good and of
God that you stopped there because
there's some your your closing
experiences I want to get to near the
end but I want to maybe jump back a
little bit and focus on what you're
talking about here with this
purification and also with this idea of
becoming more coherent now when you say
purification what exactly do you mean
because I my
idiot assumption is something akin to
you know what the ayahuasca culture
calls purging where you're basically
putting pushing out or releasing or
letting go or discharging suffering pain
you know hardships whatever through the
active metabolic process of feeling them
yeah so that you can having let those go
enter into a state that a state of being
that exists without them is is that what
you mean when you're saying purification
it's a good description it is that it's
physiological I mean you know people
throw up a lot on Maya Wasco they don't
tend to think of LSD is something that
causes throwing up but to me I was
working with such high levels I threw a
blot on Elysee that's part of this whole
releasing of physical toxins biochemical
toxins psychological toxins just letting
them come through your system and
offload and very rapid sequences when
you move into deeper levels it takes
different forms I mean to sort of it if
you want to become to enter it to enter
into very very deep states of
consciousness where you enter into unit
of consciousness with the divine our
different dimensions of existence or
different dimensions of the cosmos you
have to completely let go of everything
in your life which keeps you small so
it's not just negative experiences it's
not just pain it's every thought form
every emotional derivative that
consulates around smallness but you you
have to sort of allow your system to
step up to handle the enormous waves of
energy that move through you in these
very deep states of consciousness so
purification begins at the personal
level your purifying all sorts of pieces
of your personal history including your
former life history but as you go deeper
and deeper the forms of purification
become harder to identify with anything
personal it
come and eventually you literally are
transcending time and space and there is
a sense in which you you have to empty
yourself of everything associated with
your entire history of being time and
space being to enter into realities
beyond time and space hmm but it is
exactly as the ayahuasca the Sun to die
may tradition describes it it is a Porta
God it's a letting go
it's a manifesting and letting go of
those realities hmm I'm you know given
that we're talking about transcending
time and space I'm gonna assume that it
you know it's a trend transcends
linguistic form as well but I'm just
curious like what what does it feel like
yeah - I like I know what it feels like
to you know purify or discharge sadness
yeah I know what it feels like to to
feel like the grief and the fear you
know particularly the the grief of
letting go of who I think I am yeah or
who I thought I was yeah but it really
it's it's mind-blowing really is there a
way that you could describe in language
what it's like to purify let go of your
very essence of being bound by time and
space well your question really
penetrates right to the some very heart
of some very thorny issues let me let me
mention before we jump into it you know
ineffability
is taken as one of the signature
qualities of a genuine mystical
experience William James first brought
it in and it's been incorporated into
some of the diagnostic questionnaires to
assess the the depth of one's mystical
experience personally I think
ineffability is overrated
so these things are hard to put into
words they are hard to to find ways of
expressing experiences that you enter
into in these realities but my
experience is when you first break into
a new level of reality it is hard to get
it down
on paper it is hard to find words and
there are some tricks that I learned in
order to conquer ties by recall of these
experiences but what I found is if you
keep going back to the same level of
reality over and over again if you go
through this purification process and
consciousness stabilizes at that level
of reality your cognition becomes clear
you begin to understand how this works
the pieces begin to go here and it
becomes easier and easier to find the
right words to describe it then when you
break into a new level of reality the
same dynamic repeats itself that you're
kind of overwhelmed by the enormity of
something different but if you keep
going back with focus you will be able
to stabilize it the particular
experience that you're talking about of
letting go all of your experience in
time and space well partly partly I
experienced it as a as a matter of fear
you're becoming something so large that
it's swallowing everything you've ever
known not only swallowing everything
you've ever known as an individual but
there's a sense in which when you're
working at that level even - even to
push that particular
boundary you are no longer an individual
having gotten to that level because a
sense in which your you're functioning
as a species you're functioning as a
it's a fractal member of an entire human
species and then at a deeper level
you're not even a species you're somehow
a fractal embodiment of an entire
evolutionary impulse has been
manifesting galaxies and solar systems
and planets and evolving life so you
literally have already dissolved into
those deeper patterns so you're not an
individual having a transpersonal
experience you have surrendered into
that part of the universe that lives a
sea galaxy that lives effort as an
evolutionary thrust so when it comes to
the point of letting go of that and
entering into something which is
we're the big bang came from entering
the domain of formlessness itself it's
it feels less like a personal crisis it
feels like an almost an evolutionary
crisis or a species anxiety but if you
let go the universe takes you in and can
you just lose all frames of reference
and then suddenly you're alive within a
different reality I mean what you it's
hard to describe because I say you're
alive but you're not who you were before
but there is a threat of memory that
connects who you were inside time and
space to who you are in this reality
which is outside time and space but what
you are experiencing it's not you're
literally adrift in the mind of God so
to speak you're you're you're in the in
the cosmos as part of the tidal currents
of the cosmos hmm like part of but also
as the tidal currents like there is
there like it's not just like oh I am in
the universe as there like a sense of
being all of that as well yes I mean
basically in each deeper and deeper
level I experience it as a remembering I
wasn't entering a reality that I was not
I was remembering a dimension of my own
existence that I had forgotten about so
becoming one with God is not a matter of
confronting an external deity which you
then merge with becoming one with God or
I don't even like to use the word God
because of all the you know historical
associations the baggage that comes with
it but to become one with that reality
with that fundamental reality you it's a
matter of remembering it's a remembering
the fundamental truth that that's what
you are you are a manifestation you are
a fractal embodiment of an aspect of
this divine impulse
so the whole experiences as you become
larger you remember more as you remember
more you become clearer as you become
clearer you enter deeper and deeper into
into these ocean currents but always a
sense of waking up you're waking up it's
not really about dying and being reborn
it's just a matter of waking up to
something that is your true and natural
condition so I might I might be jumping
the gun here as they say but I feel like
this might be a good time to ask
something that I wanted to save till
later and then I'll jump back afterwards
okay I'm I'm assuming that you're
familiar with with the the anecdotal
reports of five Meo DMT that have been
really growing a lot over the last 10
years or so yeah and a lot of the people
who are will say the people of the five
you know they they experience and then
claim that what happens is like this is
the ultimate non-dual experience and you
enter into you become like the apex of
consciousness in some way like God and
in your experience you at one point even
got to what could be described as as
apex maybe this this is this diamond
luminosity and then at some point
realized that there was something even
further beyond that as well
I'm curious given your experiences like
your you know we were deep experiences
with a high dose LSD over such a long
time and and these this these entrances
and into different levels of
consciousness how do you feel about the
sort of the larger cosmological or
metaphysical claim that's being made by
people who are experiencing five Meo DMT
yeah first I'm really comfortable with
the five Meo DMT discussion I mean I
think it's a fascinating substance it
has this capacity to this catapult us
through so many layers and give us a
short immersion into those deep deep
cosmic territories but in some ways the
situation is similar I think to people
who have near
episodes you know we're just walking
down the street they have a heart attack
and they they they almost died and
they're knocked out of their body and
they have a powerful transcendental
experience which lasts minutes hours and
then they come back in their body and
they're trying to understand what it is
they experienced and if you have
fleeting contact with these realities at
one level you know what they are you can
feel what they are you know there is a
sense in which you are immersed in the
ultimate but it may be because they are
so short term and so singular I think
sometimes we draw premature conclusions
about what they imply for the nature of
the universe itself so at least here's
why I suspect that when I was doing this
work and I got to the point where I was
in those last five years and I was in
that series of immersions into what I
call the diamond luminosity past oneness
past you know merging with the divine
into some level that felt even beyond
call so reality I'd gone into it once I
went into it a second time this is my
50th session and then towards the end of
that session I had an unusual experience
I was as as far out as I ever gone I was
totally absolutely peace floating merged
with this light and then suddenly
everything pivoted 90 degrees and I saw
a reality that was far far removed and
this reality was light soaked and a beam
of light came out of that reality and
hit me and it just absolutely shattered
me it was a completely different order
of light beyond even the diamond
luminosity that it had taken me 15 years
to get to and that's when I realized I
called it the absolute light just to
give it a name but that's when I
realized that it's an infinite
progression and I completely gave up the
idea that we could ever get to the end
of it let's see when I had started this
work I thought there was an end state
you did this work and you
reach some definitive end of the process
and some people talked about is becoming
one with God or becoming one with the
universe some people talked about
entering the primal void of the super
meta cosmic void and I had entered those
states of oneness and I discovered that
there are actually many gradations of
oneness and I had entered formlessness
but I discovered that there are actually
gradations of harmlessness and this
experience convinced me that even using
this very powerful method the universe
was just much much larger than I had
imagined it to be and that there was no
way I was going to ever be able to come
to the end some end and I just realized
that was a false a false expectation on
my part and then what happened in the
sessions is that the session stopped
taking me farther out and the diamond
luminosity began to crunch itself deeper
more and more deeply into my physical
body the next year two years of work
were all about being having that diamond
light crunch into my physiology into my
psychology into my neural Anatomy so I
understand I really do understand those
senses of ultimate see that emerge in
these experiences I think that's a
phenomenologically accurate description
but kind of as a meta physician I would
bracket discussions of Ultima C because
I'm not I really not sure that we are in
a position as a species even using these
very very powerful substances to make
safe claims about what is ultimate or
not yes cool thank you very much now
we're gonna put a pin in that and jump
back again and talk a little bit more
about purification and coherency you
make a comment you've made it the
comment multiple times and maybe you
could just sort of clarify it a bit now
that you you have to effort at some
point and get familiar with certain
states of consciousness at which point
you become coherent
they're your you hold a coherent
cognition while in these higher energy
states of consciousness can you maybe
just explain that a little bit more
deeper and possibly you know how how it
is that you do that yeah well this was a
learn as you go process you know I
didn't I wasn't part of the psychedelic
culture I didn't have a shaman kind of
helping me through this process I was
really having to figure it out as I went
and I was using a medicine that didn't
have a lot of history you know I didn't
have and it didn't have psychedelic
didn't have fields associated with it
the way that mushrooms do and the way
that ayahuasca does it's really
relatively new medicine and therefore
it's very much was taking me to an edge
my experience you know when I read the
picture of people's psychedelic
experiences particularly their
experiences with with LSD or other very
powerful psychedelics I saw that the the
different ways that they were touching
all sorts of different levels of reality
but I also saw a lot of confusion and a
lot of fragmentation in their experience
they were getting it was as if they were
getting bits and pieces and I found that
when I when they were describing
multiple sessions it was as if they were
always starting over again they were
they were always getting to this space
where they were having these experiences
but there wasn't a progressive
developmental sequence my experience was
different than that I experienced myself
as being engaged in a long sustained
conversation which deepened into a
communion with a consciousness which
never took any form it never took a
particular symbolic form it never but it
always was there and it was
orchestrating my sessions it was
determining what happened in the
sessions all I had to do is show up let
it take me where it would take me and
then make sense of what would happen in
making sense of what happened involved
methodically
during the session thinking about it
extensively after the session it wasn't
simply just a matter of having a clean
context environment so a good set good
setting good preparation all those
things it was a matter of thoroughly
thinking about processing trying to
integrate intellectually as well as
personally emotionally and physically
the experiences that you were having so
I mean I was trained as a philosopher
and I was trained as an analytic
philosophy philosopher so when I would
enter these states I would try to enter
into it as clearly as I could and take
in as much as I possibly could and
understand as much as I could and retain
as much as I could and I found that if
you meet the universe or if you meet
these states with that kind of devotion
to engagement it will orchestrate your
experience and take you as deep as you
have the capacity to go but you have to
hold the posture at your end you have to
do your work you have to do your side
and your side for me involved paying
attention surrendering having the
courage to let it take me where it would
take me having the courage to die again
and again in this process but then
writing it down
thinking about it trying to figure it
out put the pieces all together and let
it unfold hmm interesting yeah yeah that
but that's great and later before we end
I'd like to ask you a bit about your
your thoughts and advice on integration
but what you having said that and when I
first heard it really it echoed
something that I hadn't been able to
give words to before I died I wrote a
book on working with psilocybin
mushrooms and that is exactly what
happened to me over the course of an
extended period of time of using it
monthly it was like each time I used it
I got with this like pay attention
surrender and trust the process I just
got a greater level of cognitive
coherency so that I could come back I
would know all the writing I explore it
that I could you know accurately
articulate this is exactly what's
happening and here's how it comes about
and here's well for me anyways at these
dose levels so that wasn't really that's
a really cool language and unless you
want to particularly comment on that I
have a have another question here for
you now I completely understand your app
are it's interesting how our experiences
are so congruent with different
psychedelics each psychedelic has its
own quality but the the phenomenon of
engagement is the same in all of them
mmm you definitely went much much deeper
than I much deeper than I did actually
let's just let's okay we're gonna just
put everything on hold for a second
because you said something else one time
that I thought was very interesting and
I'll just ask you outright because I get
this question of law a lot what is the
difference between LSD and psilocybin
yeah well I mean this phenomenologically
not yeah it's not magical it
I think of psilocybin as very much of a
kind of a body grounded psychedelic I
feel it very strongly in my body it
really when I'm in a psilocybin state
this intelligence it almost as if it
enters into my body it sweeps through my
body checks it out can identify what's
going on here there touches the
emotional feels and it's a very it's my
whole body hums and glows when I'm with
psilocybin something very similar with
ayahuasca it's it feels very you're it
takes your whole body into the
experience my experience working again
with high doses of LSD ins different
lower doses but with high doses of LSD
it is such an enormous acceleration such
an enormous catapulting into deep deep
states of consciousness it almost as if
this isn't really quite true but in
certain ways that almost as if it tends
to leave the body behind and there's a
way in which integrating the body into
those states of consciousness takes time
and comes later there's a tendency to
that's not a dissociative is psychedelic
like
ketamine is but it tends to sort of
drive to what I would call the high
cosmological ceiling it tends to throw
you into the high cosmological ceiling
and it doesn't give you for example in
least in my experience it didn't give me
contact with the elemental spirits with
the earth spirits with the with the the
totem ancestors of the animal or
vegetable kingdom it just wasn't working
at that level tends to be kind of drive
towards the cosmological ceiling so to
speak so it would drive me beyond my
personal ego and then it drove me into
the species consciousness and then it
drove me into earth consciousness and
then it started taking me even beyond
that territory cool I thank you I found
later that using psilocybin actually
kind of helped me integrate some of my
LSD experiences precisely because it
tended to open up my body and allowed
some of that high cosmological energy to
enter more easily into my physical form
now what are you taking were you taking
higher doses of psilocybin or more
average say five dried grams of
mushrooms or were you entering into
Kalindi Iggy territory where you're at
2030 grams 40 50 grams of mushrooms
I was probably working in more
standardized doses with psilocybin I
wasn't really trying and and much of the
work I did with psilocybin was after I
had stopped the LSD work I did some
intermittently along the way but after I
stopped the LSD work I worked with
psilocybin and some with ayahuasca and I
what I found is that it was very helpful
towards integration I didn't feel like I
was breaking new territory and I wasn't
trying to break new territory I was
trying to recover from the territory had
already broken into I was trying to
basically learn how to walk on the earth
again after having so many
transcendental experiences hmm well I
would be very curious to see you and I
Kalinda
compare notes of ultra high dose trip to
max but let's let's yeah that's let's go
back now that we're okay we've explored
that okay increasing you know cognitive
coherency at increasing levels of high
energy consciousness mixing this with
purification okay so what are you
curious about like did it get easier or
did it stay about the same as you
progressed and what I mean by this was
is okay so in the early phases
you're just you're struggling with all
the pain and grief of just letting go of
being a you know a white you know highly
educated philosopher a male you this is
one of your stories into becoming
something else you know like the entire
female side of our species you know over
time yeah you're struggling with that
the pain and grief of that maybe pain
and grief of past traumas or whatever it
is and then you know fast forward 15
years and you're you're you're facing
the fear and the discomfort and the
challenge of letting go of all time and
space and somewhere in the middle of
that you're in a you would you go the
the sea of suffering you know what
you're experiencing the suffering of the
entire species of humanity you know
overall time simultaneously you know
yeah is is what you were experiencing in
those later phases was that about the
same level of challenge with a greater
psychic magnitude or did it get easier
did it stay this this is what I'm
curious about really yeah yeah um the
ocean of suffering was much harder much
more demanding to experience than the
dissolution of my private ego is
different a different order of magnitude
let me I have to go back to think of
something I thought while you were
asking the question I'm beginning to
lose it now okay
I don't I want to be careful not to over
emphasize the negative because there's a
steady rhythm you know there is he the
clerk the the purification phase of a
session and then there the ecstatic
phase and to me the only thing it makes
it possible to endure the purification
phase are the blessings that you're
giving in the ecstatic phase so when I
was processing the ocean of suffering
after a session it wasn't just the ocean
of suffering that I was processing I was
also processing the enormous gift of my
early unit of experiences my early
experiences of being taken on what I
call a cosmic tour my early experience
of being taken back to the beginning of
creation so it's it's all sorts of
wonderful ecstatic experiences are part
of that and this rhythm kept up all the
way through there was a rhythm of
purification and the rhythm of blessing
and the blessings always kept pace with
the magnitude and the scale of the
purification so the deeper the
purification went the deeper the
blessings became until eventually once
you learn that rhythm once you learn
that all you have to do is follow the
purification as deeply as it goes and
there will be blessings waiting for you
at the end at that point you literally
begin to not avoid purification you seek
it out you want to go as deeply into
that muck as you can not because you're
a glutton for pain and suffering you're
you're a glutton for what lies on the
other side of that pain and suffering
now in some ways the rhythm itself gets
easier once you know that that's the
rhythm one it gets easier because
there's less fear associated with it
the ordeal may be intense but it doesn't
frighten you as deeply you may get
transiently terrified but you trust the
process you keep going deeper into it
one of the worst in in the sense
experientially most demanding accessions
I ever had actually was the 70th session
it was the last great vision I would
give in a series of what
would call the great visions and might
work over the years but the 70th session
put me through a tear down I ripped down
that was worse than anything I'd ever
gone through before so it in some ways
it gets easier but then if the universe
wants to take you very very deep in
order to get to that depth it's got to
put you through a process that you need
in order to stabilize consciousness and
that depth and in this case it took me
deeper into what I call deep time than
it had ever taken me before I use I
coined the term deep time to describe a
particular experience with respect to
time and transcending time you can go
outside of time altogether into eternity
it and escape the envelope of space-time
altogether but I had many experiences of
experiencing certain units of time
certain spans of time as an organic
whole so this began early on by
experiencing my complete life as a
totality start to finish and then I
began to experience evolution the
evolution of the universe and the
evolution of humanity in terms of a
timeframe of tens of thousands hundreds
of thousands of years so there was like
my consciousness was extended to a
hundred thousand years and I could
experience how the universe experiences
that hundred thousand years not how
Chris based might experience that so
deep time became a term that I use to
describe different modalities of time
and eventually I became convinced that
these modalities weren't simply
projections and they weren't simply you
know playing shuffling the cards about
chris bosh experiences time but somehow
I was being taken into how the universe
experiences time and the universe as you
move more towards the edge of space-time
time itself begins to be more porous
this last session let me back up one of
the things we haven't talked about yet
is many
experiences that I had which eventually
became a story of the evolution of the
human race and where we are in our
evolutionary story and the particular
crisis that we are coming into as I
think our entire species is trying to go
outgrow the go excite all of the past
and move into a much deeper archetypal
know a much deeper experience of being a
human which is much more soul oriented
much more transparent to each other into
the divine the 70th session that I
referenced was my deepest excursion into
deep time which took me deep into
humanity's future and gave me one of my
clearest experiences of what I call the
future human the the human being that
humanity is in the process of becoming
our next evolutionary type so it gets
easier but you never know when you know
it can come up and slap you hard if it
wants to take you somewhere special yeah
that's something something I learned all
too well and is definitely shared
amongst the other deep explorers that I
know it's just like just be careful
because as soon as you get brazen it'll
teach you a lesson about comes no matter
how competent you feel so maybe now is a
good time to to move into some closing
because we're just about the hour mark
here pretty quick mm-hmm you stopped
doing this yes and and and and I kind of
already have a sense of where the answer
is going so I'm curious how to ask the
question because I I'm simultaneously
wondering why did you stop yeah while
also wondering you know what did these
experiences
how did they change your relationship to
dying like your your physical death as a
human now yeah though that's that's sort
of like the large open-ended question
yeah well let me take that last question
first because it's the easiest I am so
looking forward not necessarily to the
process of dying but I am so looking
forward to being dead with absolute and
complete confidence because I know where
I'm going and I've died I've made that
transition so many times in my sessions
I feel very comfortable with what's
going to be happening after this body
falls away hmm okay I stopped these
sessions it's not that I stopped
sessions altogether but I stopped this
particular series of sessions I stopped
working with high doses of LSD for two
reasons one was pain and the other was
heartache when you're working with such
extremely high doses of LSD it's just an
enormous demands it places enormous
demands on your body and on your subtle
energy system and what I found and this
I talk about in diamonds from heaven
what I found is that after many years my
energy was just running so hot I was
carrying too much energy was like I was
almost never comfortable in my body I
wasn't having flashbacks or anything
like that but literally my subtle energy
system was so taxed by entering in and
out of these states and a rhythmic even
just five times a year that I had to
stop to let my whole system calm down
cool down and find its new equilibrium
but the main reason I stopped is
different the main reason I stopped us
heartache I literally could not take the
heartache of being separated from the
divine anymore I had entered and was
entering so deeply into the diamond
luminosity so deeply into the
crystalline
nature of whatever you want to call it
the divine or the absolute err i had
dissolved and lost my body my boundaries
and entered and become light so many
times and with such exquisite joy that
coming back into time-space became just
a terrible heartache and eventually I
reached a point where I decided better
not to go back at all than to have to go
and leave and so I made a kind of an
agreement with I called the absolute my
words for the absolute tourism might be
love it because it was a love
relationship that unfolded so I made a
deal with my beloved to never take me
back that deeply again until I would not
have to leave and that's really why I
stopped my sessions I thought that I
could just because I really paid a lot
of attention to integration all the way
through the process you know I really
tried to do it right do all the things
you do to really solidly integrate each
individual session and I thought that I
could therefore stop my sessions and
then I would be able to harvest the
insights and the experiences that I had
been blessed with on during those years
what I found was however that in the
years following really a number of years
I began to enter into what I call the
deep sadness I begin to enter into a
sense of existential loneliness I just I
was so I was missing the divine so
deeply back now in time and space that
basically life had began to feel all
dried up I really I really wasn't that
interested in being here and I found
that I was just waiting to die I was
just waiting to die so I could return to
the light in years past
and I began to realize slowly oh this
isn't good this is not the way it's
supposed to be I knew that this was not
the way it was supposed to end up and I
didn't understand what had happened
because I had been so careful with
integration all the way through I
wasn't clear to me where I had where had
gone wrong but my life was telling me
was screaming failure to integrate fail
you to integrate in time I began to
realize that what had happened was I had
lost a balance between transcendence and
imminence between letting go and going
beyond all time-space reality and being
grounded solidly with in time and space
reality time of space is the manifest
body of the divine I know it's the
divine I've experienced it as the
manifest being of the divine it's not
that there are two Divine's are just the
you know transcendent divine in the
imminent divine but I had plunged so
deeply into the transcendent divine that
I kind of lost my foothold
I lost my grounding in the imminent
divine and I I made a it took about ten
years but I made a determined commitment
to reground myself into physical
existence to temper my memories of
transcendence with my appreciation and
enjoyment of the manifest divine around
me continuously and that took a long
time but eventually I did and eventually
I became more comfortable being here one
of the problems one of the things I ran
into in going through this process one
of the challenges wasn't simply
withdrawing from this intimate communion
it was living in the silence that had
been imposed on me by our psychedelic
phobic culture I wasn't allowed to speak
about my experiences I couldn't teach
from them I could not bring them to my
colleagues I could not really write in
complete abandon I could not do what I
had been trained to do as a philosopher
of religion I couldn't philosophize
based on these experiences I wasn't part
of a psychedelic subset in Ohio and I
knew that if I began this conversation I
would be fired you know I would just and
I love to teach I love being with my
students so this be the split between my
public life and my
life became increasingly burdensome and
then when I stopped the sessions it
became even more burdensome that I I
didn't have a place to process my
experiences so what I found is that
there's there's a level of integration
that could take place privately
psychologically before I started to
speak and then when I began working on
diamonds from heaven and I began to give
the talks as I this book was coming to
its conclusion and I began to share with
people what it actually what I had
actually done and where it had gone so I
could not only share what I had
experienced but take in what they had
experienced I found that the integration
of those experiences began to deepen
they began to live in me differently
than they had lived before I began to
speak about them and that's that's begun
a process that's still continuing to
unfold I don't know where it's going to
go but somehow the transcendent divine
and the imminent divine seem to be
reaching a deeper merging a deeper
synthesis in my life now that I finally
you know share the conversation I've
opened the conversation there's there's
a couple more questions I have for you
if you've got the time yeah this one
might be a bit quick you were just you
were uncomfortable physically because of
this you know hi subtle energy were you
doing any physical spiritual practices
yoga tai chi nothing like that yes sir I
I was doing first I was doing meditation
and Vaudrey and during all of my years
and in the last five years I was really
doing formal Vajrayana practices I was
taking good care of my body I was doing
yoga
I was really maintaining a very careful
that at that time a vegetarian diet I
was really taking a lot of care of my
body I was doing chiropractic care I was
doing massages I was really taking care
of the instrument
okay cool that was I was curious about
because that might be an area where it's
like oh maybe if you were doing yoga
yeah yeah cool so this other question is
very personal why I mean everything
you've shared is obviously very personal
but this is the kind of personal that a
lot of people hesitate to share so I
certainly don't have to answer this no
pressure which is what kind of a toll
did these experiences take on your
capacity to be intimate with other
people because I know for myself when I
was it's less now but when I was going
regularly very deep into my mushroom
experiences yeah I often felt very
existentially alone and like I couldn't
relate to other people and I couldn't
relate to I didn't I felt like there was
this vital area of relationship in my
romantic partnerships that was always
missing because they didn't go there as
well and so I always felt alone in those
explorations yeah so I'm just curious
what kind of a because I'm assuming that
your intimate partners weren't going as
like regularly deep as yourself you know
what kind of a impact did that have on
your ability to be at the human level
and be intimately relating with other
people or with lovers no I know exactly
what you're referring to I understand
that loneliness and that loneliness was
the unexpected cost of doing this work I
of all the things I had anticipated
entering into this essentially a
shamanic path the loneliness and
separation from other people was the
most unexpected and it's kind of curious
because because of the experiences my
capacity to enter into other people's
lives to empathically enter into their
experience had deepened enormous ly but
unless they were a psychedelic and Italy
initiated themselves they had no
capacity to understand what were to me
the most important experiences of my
life and so naturally the a certain
distance grew up between myself and my
social relationships and in this anyway
so there is and there is a sense
the world there's a place in Carlos
Gustin ADA's book where Don Juan is
talking to Don Genaro and Don and Genaro
says the world is only real when I'm
with him meaning Don Juan which means
there's a sense in which if you take up
the psychedelic path or any practice
which really opens up deeper and deeper
levels of experience it does inadvertent
it inevitably separates you're on a
different Road than the people around
you who are interested only in physical
tangible things and so there is a
loneliness that comes with that I find
that this loneliness is for me is easing
as I become more public and I enter into
conversations with people like yourself
who have had their own experiences and
we can share these things and it's
easier now in terms of my most intimate
relationships I've been very blessed in
that respect I've been married twice
carol was a my first wife we were
married for 24 years she was my wife
during all the years when I was doing
this work
she was my sitter in all of this work
she is a very mystical inclined person
as a deep Buddhist practitioner she
never was interested in doing sessions
it just wasn't she was they always
seemed too violent for her and she
really was meditators everything she
needed she found on her meditation
cushion and in some ways it wasn't until
I began at very advanced levels of this
congress this engagement when I was
moving into the diamond luminosity that
I felt like I began to understand her
for the first time so she was a highly
developed spiritual being after we have
separated and she has remarried and I
have remarried she has gone on to
complete her Vajrayana training she's
done her three year three months retreat
with her teacher in Santa Fe New Mexico
to kill Sonic so she's a serious
practitioner and so I didn't experience
lack of headroom in my conversation with
her I always thought like in some ways
even though the experiences were
different but in some ways the more I
did this work the closer we were coming
existentially in that way
and after after I stopped my sessions we
came to a point where we separated with
for reasons that don't have to do with
the sessions themselves we just came to
a parting of our ways and we're still
friends and but then I was blessed with
a second marriage that with Cristina
Hardy and Cristina Hardy is also a
journey err so she understood
experientially the dimensions that I had
entered into she understood them from
her own experience she's also an
astrologer so she's very deeply a
daughter of the earth and a daughter of
the stars so she kind of lives deeply
grounded in the reality and the texture
in the textures of time and space and in
the rhythms of time and space so that in
my most intimate relationships I've been
blessed to be with to wit who were able
to understand the unique experiences
that I was going through it would have
been very lonely to be with people who
where you experience intimacy at one
level but you don't experience that
intimacy at another level yeah
the final question that I have I want to
hold on it for a second because you said
something and I just want to make sure I
understand cuz it if I understand I
think it's an important point you said
that your first wife never she did not
want to do what you were doing because
she found it too violent and you said at
a certain point you began to understand
her is that what you mean you started to
understand why she wouldn't choose to do
what you were doing no it wasn't that
particularly I I shouldn't say focused
just on the violence she really she's a
very gentle and a naturally mystically
oriented person and she found the the
vehemence of the cleansing portion of
the sessions very hard for her to relate
to
she also found the temporary nature that
you would have these deep temporary
experiences but then you would come back
and you couldn't hold on you could
remember them but you couldn't embody
them and she she was more attracted to a
path where you basically could hold on
to more of your experiences it was a
slower path of initiation but you could
hold on to more of your experiences what
I mean was by when I say I began to be
able to understand her more deeply that
there is a sense in which her natural
way of tuning into the universe and the
universe that she tuned into that is
what I began to appreciate more deeply
that when when I began to touch into the
diamond luminosity I touched him to a
reality that was so absorbing and so
powerful for me that basically nothing
else in my sessions mattered except
reconnecting with that reality and I
began to appreciate how her entire life
ever since she had been a girl had all
been oriented towards accessing and
stabilizing this deep participation in
the universe okay
that's what it was yes I gotcha I am
glad for the clarification because I
might have misunderstood as you know
you've said in your talks I'll swear
that that you wouldn't recommend this
path for other people and that you know
if you could go back you would be you
know quote easier on yourself and so I
want I wondered if that's if that's what
you are leaning towards I would be
gentler for a number of reasons one is
because I learned that it's not a matter
of getting to an end destination it's a
matter of becoming open living as much
of the infinite enter into your being as
you can absorb and in if that's the
approach if it's really about grounding
the transcendent experiences here and
now in this body then that is often
served better by working with lower
doses that allow you to hold on to more
of what you experience so I really don't
recommend what I did I mean I really
think I pushed myself it it took a great
deal of concentration a great
commitment to do to go some of the
places I went and I don't think it's
necessary in order to spiritually wake
up to have the to go where I went I'm I
just have more compassion for myself and
I wouldn't want some people anybody to
to undergo some of the things I went
through hmm okay thank you so the final
question before the other you know the
understandable opportunity to promote
your new book and get people more
connected with you yeah is about
integration maybe a fuller understanding
for us like what it means to integrate
because there are there's you know one
thing about you know writing the stuff
down I remember you had explained that
the next day you would write it down
like narrative eyes it listening to the
same music you listen to during the
session and they would name each session
so that as soon as you looked at the
name you would have a sense of what that
session contained which is million thank
you Bob on behalf of all psychedelics
bars thank you for that and you've
you've also mentioned the the vital
importance of relationship in the
integration process in other talks and
so those two things sort of laid out how
do you integrate something as profound
and massive as the things that you would
had gone through yeah I think some of
the challenges the personal challenges
that I faced around integration is one
of the reasons I precisely would
recommend that people don't do what I
did precisely because it with these
substances we can project ourselves we
can dissolve so deeply into these vast
territories that it truly becomes
mind-boggling how does how do you
integrate them in fact I mean as long as
you're staying inside time and space and
you're uncovering your pains of your
past and your oncoming trauma for this
life or former lives we have therapeutic
models for what integration looks like
and how to do it and if you go deeper
and you experience the intelligence that
runs through
things and you experience you know the
certainty of continuity of life after
death
we still have spiritual models for what
it means to integrate those experiences
into our life and when you look at the
near-death episode research people have
very deep one-time experiences of
transcendence we have a sense of how to
integrate that material but it truly is
one of the leftover questions of my life
is what does integration mean when you
when you're going so deep into deep time
how do you integrate a hundred thousand
year swathes of time into Monday Tuesday
Wednesday consciousness how do you
integrate becoming one when you are you
know just one among many again how do
you integrate you know going so deep
into the future that you're looking at
the next evolutionary stage of the human
process how do you integrate that with
coming back and going back to work in
the morning after I finished my sessions
shortly thereafter in my morning
meditation spirit said to me 20 years in
20 years old and I thought okay I
understood what that meant it would take
me at least 20 years to integrate the
experiences that I had cultivated over
those 20 years
and I thought that sounds about right
but now dark neither the diamonds from
heaven will be published 20 years after
I stopped my sessions so I really have
been looking at how much I've been able
to hold on to during those 20 years and
where it's taken me and as I mentioned
the depth of the loneliness that I
experienced was not because of a failure
in my sessions it was actually because
of success the success that you have
entering into the universe becomes the
challenge of integration when you come
back again I found that as long as I was
keeping silent as long as I was really
not communicating from my center about
these experiences on integration could
only take us it could only proceed to a
certain level when I wrote dark night
early dawn where I first began to unpack
some of these experiences it would not
allowed me to enter into some
conversation
that allowed this integration this
deeper integration to manifest but it
wasn't really until I began to write
diamonds from heaven that I began to
experience a deeper level of integration
manifest and I guess the way I would put
it is like this I don't think you can
integrate the infinite into the finite
by its very definition almost you can't
integrate infinity into finite existence
the only thing you can do is integrate
your finite existence into infinity you
must surrender to the infinite moment to
moment day to day opportunity to
opportunity you must kind of become a
servant of the infinite surrender
completely to that involution airy
process that sri aurobindo talks about
and I think that I mean I'm I'm a
teacher my natural instinct is to learn
and to share and the laws around
psychedelics interrupted my own natural
way of being in the world now that I'm
retired now that I've passed my statute
of limitations for my psychedelic crimes
now that I can speak about these things
now that I can those two different sides
of my life are coming together and
really for the first time in my adult
life I feel like I'm beginning to be a
whole person again as I'm beginning to
be a whole person
something is happening in my
relationship within myself in the
universe and also something is happening
in my relationship with other people
because the depth of the consciousness
which is alive in me is also the depth
of the consciousness it's alive in you
and so when we come together this deeper
kind of you know fluctuation surfaces
underneath both of us and I find this
when I'm teaching and when I'm working
in workshops or with groups is a deeper
aliveness that in earlier years I had to
hold it bay I had to kind of tamp down
now it's beginning now I can let it come
through now it comes forward I don't
know where this deeper integration is
going to go I don't know where it's
going to take me it's taking me places
that I have not been before except in
the sessions but in times of
my physical consciousness my time-space
consciousness there is a certain
transparency that catches me up that's
fresh and there is a certain wholeness
that arises when I'm with people that is
fresh and I don't know where it's going
to go another 20 years of this it's I
have no idea where it's going to lead me
but I like it it feels natural and it
feels like integration is continuing to
take place so I don't consider myself
finished with this integration process
at all cool well thank you very much for
that Chris and thank you so much for
this whole conversation today we do give
maybe you could end us off with letting
the listeners know where they can find
out more about you where they could get
your your I'm not sure if your diamonds
from heaven just released yet but you're
three books what their names are as well
as your social media handles well
actually my website is still in the
process of being made so can't go there
yet but soon diamonds from heaven the
book that we've been talking about will
be released from inner traditions in
2019 probably next summer in this it'll
be in the second half of 2019 my three
earlier books was first life cycles
which is a book on reincarnation
research second book was dark night
early dawn where I basically am
integrating psychedelic research and
incorporating my own experiences with
near-death episode research and
out-of-body research so it's it's an
extensive unfortunately kind of
academically dense if rigorous but dense
discussion of some of these issues the
third book is called the living
classroom all of these are available in
Amazon the living classroom basically is
describing something that was happening
in my classroom while I was doing my
psychedelic work in the backside I don't
talk about psychedelics there at all but
it's about fields of consciousness it's
about the contagious nature of states of
consciousness because what I found was
that when I was doing this work and
keeping it private from all my students
nevertheless some of my students started
to be activated by my own work and so I
you know it was like I began to
understand and have to work with the
contagious quality of states of
consciousness and then diamonds from
heaven is the book just finished where I
basically go back to the very beginning
and simply take people through layer by
layer the entire sequence of events
because I found that you can't even
begin the philosophical conversation
about psychedelic States unless people
in this case editors of professional
journals and things unless they're
convinced that these are legitimate
experiences and the only two ways to be
experiences is to either have the
experiences yourself or to be to undergo
a secondary initiation by reading other
people's accounts of their experiences
and kind of picking up on it through
kind of osmosis and that's what I'm
hoping that diamonds from heaven my I
don't think my experiences are special
or unique in any way they may have
pushed a little harder than some people
but I think they fall within the broad
range of experiences that people have
I'm just trying to lay them out in an
organized fashion so that people can
become more familiar with these states
and I hope maybe hopefully it'll it'll
help people in their own psychedelic
work but I also hope it will be useful
to people who never take a psychedelic
because it's what's important is not the
method but what the method teaches us
about the universe itself and as a
philosopher that's what my interest in
is letting people see the universe as
the universe showed it to me in these
sessions mmm yeah beautiful thanks
thanks so much Chris
are you on social media anywhere I'm on
Facebook but I really I'm not really
well grounded in social media I'll have
my website up hopefully within just a
couple of
and I'll be collecting I mean I my
stalks are scattered all over the web
you know if you google me you'll come up
with a whole bunch of videos and and
talks but I haven't consolidated them
and presented them enough in one place
cool well I I will make a little bit of
an effort to consolidate some stuff
including links to all your books where
people can buy them and your website
once it's live at James W G so calm
under the page that has the show notes
to this episode Christopher thank you
very much for being on the show today
James my pleasure it was a great
conversation really appreciate your
probing questions really excellent and
cut while thank you very much for tuning
in to that episode of adventures through
the mind if you liked it please give it
a share on social media additionally if
you are enjoying the show in the larger
body of content that you access to the
adventures through the mind Gateway
please consider becoming a financial
supporter of the show by becoming my
patron on patreon or by leaving a
one-time PayPal or cryptocurrency
donation links to doing so are contained
in the description to this episode on
YouTube at James W Jessup calm or in the
description contain I'm getting a bit
lost in whatever pod catcher you might
be listening to this on ok great so that
that finalizes us up please follow me on
social media at James to be gesso and I
will see you on the next episode of
adventures
through the mind take care
[Music]